So we have a button,
we have a story for that button, but
I wouldn't go as far to say that we have
even the inklings of a design system.
We have verified that
HTML works at this point.
And so now we wanna think about what
does the styling of a button look.
And this is where we get a little bit into
the philosophy of design systems as well.
Which is, I think the designers at
my company spend a lot of times when
they think about the design system,
thinking about the design language and
the visual consistency and
stuff along those lines, right?
I am lucky enough to have a design
team these days, right in always.
And so it means that I don't necessarily
have to think about these things as much.
I have to think about the one,
how do we actually implement that?
And then two, again, in the same way that
designers are thinking about the visual
language for our users,
I as the leader of the engineering team,
think about what is the maintainable
code base here, right?
We have done a lot of back and forth and
a lot of time of rethinking what are our
standards and rules for components, right?
What are our best practices?
When you grab a component, even in
our internal design system, any given
person should basically be able to guess
how it works, and have a good sense.
You don't need various different props for
the menu button that has the drop-down
from the regular button.
They shouldn't look different visually,
that's what design cares about and
your API's shouldn't be different for
anyone in the engineering side.
We deal with it in a very small level and
little startup, right,
with a seven person engineering team and
a four person design team.
But at a company like Twilio, where not
only did you have Twilio, right, but
you had all of his acquisitions
along the way too, right?
And so I worked at SendGrid, which Twilio
acquired, they later acquired segment, so
on and so forth.
So you didn't have one design language,
you had many design languages,
but one design system, right?
And then you could pass a theme to it,
right?
I definitely will make
references to Twilio's paste,
one point because I worked very closely
with that team for years and years.
And then we'll also talk about
the one that I work on today.
But there are lots of different
ways that various different design
systems handle, what are the different
types of buttons as we saw?
So one of the things I did for
us on the course website is I
looked at the big ones,
the kinda very popular ones.
So Microsoft's Fluent design system,
which if you use Visual Studio Code,
you've seen, right, [LAUGH].
That's what's in there.
Atlassian's design system,
if you've used Jira, you've seen that one.
IBM's Carbon design system, which I
don't use a lot of IBM products, but
it is a very built out and
very kind of robust design system.
And one thing that I will point out if
we kinda go into these design systems
that you will see is,
this is IBM's design system.
What's it using?
What, does it look familiar to us, right?
If I go into Microsoft's design system,
what's this one using?
Right, the reason I linked all these
is cuz when in doubt, if you need
inspiration of how to structure some
stuff, just steal the ideas, right?
If I go into Twilio paste design system,
they have a site but
this is just a themed storybook as well.
And so storybook is
effectively the lingua franca,
you can get some ideas of
how to handle stuff as well.
But there's lots of different ways
of thinking about these buttons, and
lots of different props.
So you can look at, Microsoft Fluent has
an appearance prop for your primary or
secondary button.
Atlassian uses appearance, IBM uses a kind
property, but you can see this primary,
secondary, danger, ghost, tertiary,
different flavors of that as well.
GitHub uses variant, which is,
unless somebody counter argues that we
should use appearance, well, I can do it.
I'll deviate from the script.
But variant is definitely
the most popular.
Twilio's paste uses variant,
shopify's Polaris system uses variant,
GitLabs pajamas.
Side quest is your design system
needs a cool name by the way.
Ours is called Holocene,
I forgot the reason for that.
Adobe Spectrum, so
variant is the most popular one for
these primary, secondary,
dangerous, ghost buttons, right?
And so that's probably what
we're gonna stick with, right?
And so we're gonna implement this idea,
we're gonna start with a CSS module that
kinda just has some pre-written CSS.
Later on we're gonna talk about
strategies for kind of taking what
would be called design tokens on
the design level of a design system.
Like what color is a primary button,
what is the color spectrum that
we use in this design system?
Because that is both important for
the designers to have a consistent visual
design language, and it is also incredibly
important for you when you refactor, or
for you when your designers change
the visual design language, right?
And there's lots of cases
where that happens.
For when I worked at Twilio,
their brand color is red, right?
And so like most SaaS companies didn't
have a lot of designers early on, right?
And so they thought their
primary buttons should be red.
>> [LAUGH]
>> They're giggling already,
says what the problem is here.
Red means things,
red means dangerous, right?
And so then there was this big,
this is when we're still kind of,
in the initial kind of
phases of implementing pace.
Okay, so then how do you across many,
many, many, many,
many microfront ends change all the
buttons to red without a design system.
Their code wasn't structured
that way originally, right?
It is now, right, but
originally it wasn't, right?
And so how do we also,
when we begin our design system,
think about all of the things
that could happen, right?
It could be everything from you
start out with a red button, right,
which we were all smart enough
to giggle about, right?
But there's also things like, your brand
color's blue, and then they announced
the rebranding and now your brand
color is a more different blue, right?
And what we wanna do is think about
as we implemented a design system,
how to defensively structure our code, so
that we have the ability to lie to our
bosses and say that we'll take weeks and
then do it in 10 minutes and
then go stare at the sun or something.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Cool, so
we are gonna say the variant and we're
gonna start out with the CSS module and
then we'll figure out how to
refactor that in a little bit.
So like any of these, and
if you don't like variant, and
there's reasons not to like variant
that we will discover later.
If you wanna make a kind appearance,
that'll work as well, but
these are the decisions that
you need to make as a team,
because you know it's
the only wrong answer.
Different components
using different props.
So whatever makes you happy is if
you're like, Steve use variant because
of a decision he made, because most of you
use variant early on, but I hate that,
use appearance, I don't care.
I'm not gonna say you have to use variant,
variant is not meaningful.
There are lots of different options.
A different option is to kind
of do this where you kind of,
this is really a bullying for
primary or secondary.
I love this aesthetically and
I insist on this in the first design
system I tried to build in 2017.
I personally ended up regretting it,
because one,
you deal with this use case,
which TypeScript can save you from, right?
Absolutely, but then also trying to pass
booleans around in code if you want to be
kind of, if you do you wanna
use the spread operator and
stuff like that, like actually
having strings and unions is just,
I love the way this looks aesthetically.
But I will tell you as somebody who has
built out an entire design system and
SendGrid for this,
that I lived to regret it, right?
I looked at a lot of things and
the first design system that I built,
is a story that I'll
tell you some other time.
So we're gonna go with the variant one and
we're gonna go ahead and
just kind of implement that.
And this will involve a little bit of
TypeScript, a little bit of storybook, and
then a little bit of CSS modules, and
we'll kind of refactor some
of that as we go along.
In my design system, I'm gonna say
that I've got three primary ones.
We also have what's called a ghost button,
and you might have
seen that in some of the other design
systems that we scrolled through.
A ghost button is basically a button
that doesn't look like a button, right?
Later on in this workshop, we'll also
deal with the fact of the one of the most
insidious things in web development, which
is, we all know there's two real buttons,
there's buttons, and
there's links that look like buttons.
Right, and
ideally we'd like to keep a consistent
design language across both of those.
So we'll look at a strategy for
dealing with that.
But we're gonna be hand wavy over that for
a hot minute and get to it later.